---
layout: post
title:  "Andreessen vs. Thiel (2013)"
description: Finding vs. Creatiing 
tags: Creation
---

Most venture capitalists aren't original thinkers, but not Peter Thiel and Marc Andreessen. The two prestigious venture capitalists had a [great debate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUhtHojSphk) on business creation I think it's worth to dig in. 

Their disagreement can be viewed through the lens of how they view Twitter. Thiel sees it as "we wanted flying cars, instead we got 140 characters" (a Founders Fund slogan). He thinks it's an unimpressive, incremental advancement. Andreessen, however, views it as "instant global public messaging for free". In other words, fundamentally transformative.

## Finding vs. Creating

I created an analogy to explain the differences in investing perspectives between Andreessen and Thiel.

- Marc Andreessen: The Game of Finding 

There are lots of rooms in this building(market), and there are lots of treatures(opportunities) in those rooms. You may know how many golds in some rooms, but you won't know when will it open. You need good tools and good timing to open the doors to get those rewards. 

- Peter Thiel: The Game of Creating

You create another building, another layer of the game. You create new rooms others hard to even find it. Mostly, It's an "unpopular idea" so no one but you want to build it.

## Marc Andreessen: Open at the Right Time

On Marc's philosophy that software is eating the world, and timing is everything. In this game, you need to execute your idea within the critical window to succeed. Most importantly, you need to find the right window.

>"For entrepreneurs, timing is a huge risk. You have to innovate at the right time. You can’t be too early. This is really dangerous because you essentially make a one-time bet. It’s rare are to start the same company five years later if you try it once and were wrong on timing. Jonathan Abrams did Friendster but not Facebook. Things are different with venture capital. To stay in business for 20 years or more, you have to take a portfolio approach. Ideas are no longer one-time bets. If we believe in an idea and back the company that fails at it, it’s probably still a good idea. If someone good wants to do the same thing four years later, that’s probably a good investment. Most VCs won’t do this. They’ll be too scarred from the initial failure. But tracking systematically failures is important." - Marc Andreessen

> "But seriously—if you think you can execute on an idea that someone tried 5-10 years ago and failed, good VCs will be open to it. You just have to be able to show that now is the time.- Marc Andreessen

## Peter Thiel: Create Your Own Door

For Peter, the future is made by exceptional people who have a definite plan and execute on it. That meaningful, big-leap innovations are often not obvious from the start: If you're creating something that will be a great company 10 years from now, most people will probably not get it at first. 

In other words: 

> Founders who want to create radical innovation should have a big, audacious plan and ignore mundane thinking.

> You forge the timing.

Peter's logic works well in a long-term view: finding a frontier of value which will be great company years from now. A frontier that only a few people believe exists (but you have strong proof and conviction that it does).

The Founder’s Fund, which Peter Thiel co-founded, has a great [manifesto](https://foundersfund.com/the-future/) that explains in greater detail their investment philosophy on startups.

## Run Faster vs. Jump Higher

### Faster: Focusing on finding the timing

You can term Marc's approach to entrepreneurial strategy: focusing on execution(finding the timing). 

It is not so obvious that one path to monopoly is more profitable than the other. If you focus on execution you can get to market quicker and with fewer resources. You can learn as you go and actually invest in the capabilities that will give you a competitive advantage in the future. In other words, while it takes on-going work — no resting on your monopoly laurels here — you can still ‘own’ a market. The difference is that your pricing is constrained by potential competition from other firms. 

Finding the timing is the most important part of the execution. You need to execute your idea fast and good enough within the critical window to succeed. Most importantly, you may need to survive long enough to find the right window.

### Higher: Investing for Control

You can term Peter's approach to entrepreneurial strategy: investing for control.

You achieve it by patiently building your business at the same time as ensuring that you will be insulated from future competition. It takes time and it takes investment dollars as resources. Put out some crappy minimum viable product and you lose some options to control because you have shown your hand to others. Instead, what you want to do is put out a complete product with a strategy to acquire the complementary resources to insulate it from future competition. 

There is, however, another sort of monopoly — a path that gets you 100 percent of a real market. This is done by having the capabilities to beat all rivals on either quality or cost. To see how this arises consider a very structurally price-competitive market (in economics, Bertrand competition). Now suppose that you develop an innovation that allows having lower marginal costs than everyone else. In this situation, you will be able to capture 100 percent of the market and so you will be a technical monopoly. 


## Which Game?

So both Marc Andreessen and Peter Thiel can have different preferences regarding control versus execution and still both be right as an investor. 

As a founder, I believe in creating, not discovering will lead to the future. The most successful companies don’t discover markets, they create them. 

Most failed companies made the wrong 'awesome product' by choosing the wrong market and following the wrong direction 'told by the user you talked to'. Most users get pitched 'understandable idea' because founders think they have to prove market fit before building product depth. If your business fits in a market design by someone else, you are 'default dead' in a competition.

This approach will also lead you to very incremental solutions or even make you run around in circles achieving nothing. It lowers the cost of failure (downside), but also the potential impact of success (upside).





---

### Related Article: 

[[Snippet] - Marc Andreessen on 'Flying Car'](https://allenleein.github.io/2020/03/11/pmarca-flying-car.html)

[The Upside of Creation](https://allenleein.github.io/2019/06/11/gamesthoery1.html)

[Lean Is for Mediocre Minds](https://allenleein.github.io/2019/12/06/lean-mediocre.html)