---
layout: post
title:  "What do I like about metal?"
description: I belong to the island of misfit toys
tags: Music
---

> No matter how pissy a day you may or may not be having, Metal always makes it better. - Google

I say this because there is no one in my circle who is into metal. And yeah, I feel metal heads are misfit creatures from other people in the world.



I say this because the question got me thinking back to when 
I just started getting into heavy metal, iduring my under graduation,
a time when I felt like such an outcast. What drew me to heavy metal back then? Well, 
I was always inclined towards rap music and some few rock bands, and metal felt like rock + rap taken to the next level. 
It explored a style in a way that no other genre could or would; it felt energetic, adventurous 
and, at times, strangely ethereal. Even when I was first experimenting with metal and finding some bands as 
“too heavy,” there were still plenty that felt just right for me.



From then on, things only got better and more interesting. 
The discovery of seemingly countless subgenres, realizing how poetic and personal 
the lyrics can be, finding out that the people behind these supposedly 
“angry” bands are some of the kindest, most humble people you’ll ever meet, 
the enthusiasm and welcoming of fans at shows, it all came together to help shape a different perspective on metal for me.



I love metal not just because the music has so many 
forms, 
but because of the people behind it. Metal doesn’t concern itself with being a 
strictly fashionable crowd pleaser, it gains power from drawing on many sources we don’t see 
in most music.



You like Politics and real-life-inspired events? Thrash and Nu metal got your back. 
You like Tales and fantasies? Power, folk, symphonic, progressive and even doom metal got you covered. 
You are having Personal struggles? Black metal should do the trick.


You really don’t need to look far. Point is, metal appeals to several tastes and cultures, it welcomes and allows all 
to embrace the music (and each other) in a way 
that I feel other genres simply fail to accomplish.



There are no fights or discriminations among bands or band members like in Pop or rap music. I can just find a band and an album for every mood.
