---
layout: post
title:  "λ Thinking Funnel"
description:
tags: Creation
---


## The Top 1% Talents Get Things Done

“There’s a real difference between how much literal work and progress and effectiveness there is between people. Two people might be equally smart and equally driven — but some people just get a lot more. People will agree with them, people will follow them, they can process work. These doers can figure out what’s most important and work on that where other people just spend a lot, the same amount of time, but they get half as much, a third as much, a fifth as much done. You don’t have time for that. You want people who get things done.”

[What Scott Cook Wished He Knew About Being a CEO When He Founded Intuit](https://firstround.com/review/What-Scott-Cook-Wished-He-Knew-About-Being-a-CEO-When-He-Founded-Intuit/)

---

## Sequoia Capital's Investment Playbook

1. Early-stage is different from other forms of investing. As Don would say, it's predicated on investing in markets undergoing significant change: today's solutions are wrong for tomorrow. A good answer to "why now" upends the Warren Buffet quote about reputations of businesses with bad economics surviving intact. 

2. Similarly, the key to evaluating market size in the context of early-stage venture is to focus on the opportunity size tomorrow, not today. "Who cares" is a great lens to predict and distill this: if this new solution were widely known and available who (how many people/customers, what segments, with what buying power) will care (how much will it improve their lives or businesses)?

3. In a compounding environment, gains from the next few years will always dwarf all cumulative gains from years prior. The goal is to invest in companies that are able to become compounders, help them do so, and enjoy the returns as long as possible.

The question Sequoia asks is whether the future for a given market, company or investment looks brighter than today.

4. You can make money even if you get the investment thesis wrong, lose money even if you get the investment thesis right, and you realize your losses many years before your gains. (Alfred has been at Sequoia for over 10 years and only just had his first two IPOs: Airbnb and DoorDash.)

5. To succeed in venture over the long run you need all three of high IQ, high EQ, and hustle. (We would also add high patience to the list!) What you don't need are specific qualifications: Michael Moritz was a journalist, Roelof Botha was an actuary, Don and Doug were sales guys and Alfred was a COO. Greatness can come from anywhere.

6. There will always be too much capital chasing too few good deals. It's true today, it was true when Alfred started 10 years ago, and it was true when Michael Moritz started 20 years before that. But the winning companies will always generate outsized returns by using that capital to their unfair advantage. Your job as a VC is very simple, but devilishly hard: invest in those companies.

[Sequoia Capital's Investment Playbook (with Alfred Lin)](https://www.acquired.fm/episodes/special-sequoia-capitals-investment-playbook-with-alfred-lin)

---

## Pace Capital Frameworks v0.1

Venture capital is a unique opportunity that enables the purchase of time with money. It allows a company to reach forward in time and hire people that would otherwise not have joined. The same applies to strategic partnerships and contracts.

Without a sufficient answer to the question of “Why Now?”, any venture capital invested into the company or category is subsidizing company building that would be better served by alternative capital instruments (with a lower cost of capital, i.e. debt, etc.).

[Frameworks v0.1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-UiEeoiV0xBFVZgid63FRaph03OCmHzyEExubn63j0U/edit#)

---

## Elon on Focus

“Spend less time on finance, spend less time in conference rooms, less time on PowerPoint and more time just trying to make your product as amazing as possible.”

[Elon Musk Advises CEOs to Stop Wasting Time on PowerPoint, Meetings](https://www.wsj.com/articles/elon-musk-advises-ceos-to-stop-wasting-time-on-powerpoint-meetings-11607470065)

---

## Becoming ___ Genius

A Moment in the Life of an ___ Genius:

1. Reads a technical document outside their domain.

2. Feels dumb because they don't have a grasp on any of the concepts.

3. Too busy to use the very internet which some of them probably helped build to magically render learning materials to the screen in front of them at zero marginal cost.

4. Sees the word "_____"

5. Substitutes the laymen's definition of "_____"

6. Builds a fantasy World of _____ from first principles around that definition

7. Argues their fantasy first-principles ___ against other participants' fantasy first-principles ____

8. Everyone leaves sync'd on the fantasy of feeling smarter than when they arrived.

---

## New Privacy Trend in Consumer

Apple knows they're going toe-to-toe with Facebook, and they don't seem to plan to lose.

[A Day in the Life of Your Data [pdf]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25957844)

Facebook and @RobinhoodApp are the same:

They both trick you into thinking you are the customer. But, in fact, you are the product and your data is the asset. 

These assets are then sold to their true customers who pay them money and always at your expense. [Chamath](https://twitter.com/chamath/status/1355186473339736068?s=21)

**New Social Era: Against Ads/ Data Collecting**

> Will the future belong to the innovations that make our lives better, more fulfilled, and more human, or will it belong to those tools that prize our attention to the exclusion of everything else, compounding our fears and aggravating extremism to serve ever more invasively targeted ads over all other ambitions?

I could not have phrased it better. Facebook has a fear-to-dopamine hold on its users, as evidenced by how in a few years it went from only available for college students to being the exclusive communication medium of entire family trees.

[Tim Cook Implies That Facebook's Business Model of Maximizing Engagement Leads to Polarization and Violence](https://www.reddit.com/r/apple/comments/l73w3y/tim_cook_implies_that_facebooks_business_model_of/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf)

---

## The Smaller Pocket Guide of Essential YC Advice

-Build something people want

-Do things that don't scale

-Find the 90 / 10 solution

-Find 10-100 customers who love your product

-All startups are badly broken at some point

-Growth is the result of a great product not the precursor

-Don’t scale your team/product until you have built something people want

-Valuation is not equal to success or even probability of success

-Startups can only solve one problem well at any given time

-Sometimes you need to fire your customers (they might be killing you)

-Ignore your competitors, you will more likely die of suicide than murder

[YC’s Essential Startup Advice](https://www.ycombinator.com/library/4D-yc-s-essential-startup-advice)

---

## New Interaction / Use-cases

While the reaction layer seems more likely to live on in a world where large platforms have a stranglehold on identity, I am more interested in the identity layer and its ability to enable new platforms.

This isn’t to say that we can’t have both, but my view today is that the more valuable company starts as one that builds a product where a digital representation of ourself (or ourselveS) is customizable, carries brand value, easily manipulated, and creates a sense of an emotional tie between the human and the avatar. This feels most likely to happen if you also control a key platform component at the beginning.

Those creating avatar-first products must push users towards specific interactions or use-cases, and then leave the door open for emergent behaviors.

While admittedly obvious, I believe that product focus that ushers in a new behavior or interaction, paired with an ecosystem that allows for a continually fresh experience and form of expression is what will win.

[We’re ready for AI friends](https://notes.michaeldempsey.me/post/172866628574/were-ready-for-ai-friends)

---


## Larunch a Dot/Dots/a Circle

There is an underlying assumption that a basket of features = sum(individual features). That is true sometimes, but other times a bunch of features launched together have a compound aggregate value - they're much more valuable launched together than individually.

[Decisions, Decisions or Why Baskets of Options Dominate](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21452098)

---

##  The roadmap as a tree of opportunities

Encourages 'stacking' opportunities and forcing prioritisation at every intersection rather than queueing them to a linear roadmap. Your early-stage strategy = pursuing the most valuable opportunity at every intersection.

[Emil Tweet](https://twitter.com/emilkabisch/status/1352648724334391298)

[Escaping the roadmap trap](https://productcrunch.substack.com/p/escaping-the-roadmap-trap)

[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25899773)

---

## Open AI

**Musk's Approach to AI**

Musk played no small part in building a collective mythology. “The way he presented it to me was ‘Look, I get it. AGI might be far away, but what if it’s not?’” recalls Pieter Abbeel, a professor at UC Berkeley who worked there, along with several of his students, in the first two years. “‘What if it’s even just a 1% or 0.1% chance that it’s happening in the next five to 10 years? Shouldn’t we think about it very carefully?’ That resonated with me,” he says.

**Open AI Situation**

Altman’s message is clear: OpenAI needs to make money in order to do research—not the other way around.

This is a hard but necessary trade-off, the leadership has said—one it had to make for lack of wealthy philanthropic donors. By contrast, Seattle-based AI2, a nonprofit that ambitiously advances fundamental AI research, receives its funds from a self-sustaining (at least for the foreseeable future) pool of money left behind by the late Paul Allen, a billionaire best known for cofounding Microsoft.

But the truth is that OpenAI faces this trade-off not only because it’s not rich, but also because it made the strategic choice to try to reach AGI before anyone else. That pressure forces it to make decisions that seem to land farther and farther away from its original intention. It leans into hype in its rush to attract funding and talent, guards its research in the hopes of keeping the upper hand, and chases a computationally heavy strategy—not because it’s seen as the only way to AGI, but because it seems like the fastest.

[MIT Review](https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/02/17/844721/ai-openai-moonshot-elon-musk-sam-altman-greg-brockman-messy-secretive-reality/) / [HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22849538) 

---

**What went wrong at Open AI**

 They largely do research based on scaling up known ideas, have at times hyped up their work beyond merit, changed their tune to be for profit which is weird given they want to work in the public interest, and that despite calling themselves OpenAI they publish and open source code much less frequently than most labs -- and with profit incentive they will likely publish and open source even less). The original article also presented the positive side

[What Went Wrong at OpenAI? [audio]](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22453211)

---


## Pmarca on Modeling Role Models

I don't know how to do extraordinary things without extraordinary effort. More cultures in tech are tilting against extraordinary effort (so big arbitrage opportunity for extraordinary effort)

@pmarca : I'll make the counterargument to @stevesi's advice to be true to yourself:

Don't be true to yourself. Especially early on, your true self probably isn't good. Identify and study the role models and become like somebody better than yourself.

on Clubhouse

---

## New Computing

We have VR devices that are good for games and some narrow industrial use cases and there is a hope that the hardware and software can grow to become universal... AR glasses, on the other hand, are still a frontier science question - can we create optics that look like a normal pair of reading glasses (or, one day in a few decades, contact lenses) and yet that can put something into the world that looks as though it’s really there, in broad daylight, with a good field of view? And if we can, as for VR, it’s magical, but how useful is that? Looking at this stuff today is rather like seeing a multitouch demo in 2005 - it’s clearly good for something, but what? 

However, all of this might be the wrong mental model for thinking about the next step. As well as looking at the sequence ‘mainframe - PC - web - smartphone’, we should probably also think about what was going on underneath: ‘database - client/server - open source - cloud’, perhaps...

We’ve spent the last few decades getting to the point that we can now give everyone on earth a cheap, reliable, easy-to-use pocket computer with access to a global information network. But so far, though over 4bn people have one of these things, we’ve only just scratched the surface of what we can do with them. There’s an old saying that the first fifty years of the car industry were about creating car companies and working out what cars should look like, and the second fifty years were about what happened once everyone had a car - they were about McDonalds and Walmart, suburbs and the remaking of the world around the car, for good and of course bad. The innovation in cars became everything around the car. One could suggest the same today about smartphones - now the innovation comes from everything else that happens around them. 

[What comes after smartphones?](https://www.ben-evans.com/benedictevans/2020/12/13/what-comes-after-smartphones)

---

## Competition

A trillion dollar company with tens of thousands of engineers runs lots of projects and experiments, and there are lots of things that theoretically they could do, and that they might explore. But you have to ask not ‘would it be a problem for me if they got into my industry?’ but rather ‘would it make any sense for them to get into my industry?’ 

If Google can turn your business into a trivial part of Google, it will try. If it would have to recreate your entire company inside Google, it probably won’t. 


A few overlapping questions: 

Can this naturally be added to the existing skills, assets and points of leverage that they already have? Might they squash you without noticing?

Can it scale massively with little incremental, marginal cost? 

Can they turn it into that - can they turn it from offline manual processes into low-friction, automated, scalable software? 

Would they have to grow a new limb to make it work - would they have to create an entirely new kind of capability?

How big is it? Larry Page talked about the ‘toothbrush test’ - will this be as widespread as a toothbrush? Is it worth the oppportunity cost? Is it worth growing a limb?


[Are you a seal?](https://www.ben-evans.com/benedictevans/2020/11/19/are-you-a-seal)

---

## 10x Technologies

...changing paradigms can open opportunities for 10x improvements whereas incremental 10% improvements often become increasingly difficult to achieve and have certain limits.

Jeff Bezos: Outsized returns often come from betting against conventional wisdom, and conventional wisdom is usually right. Given a ten percent change of a 100 times payoff, you should take that bet every time. But you’re still going to be wrong nine times out of ten….The difference between baseball and business, however, is baseball has a truncated outcome distribution. When you swing, no matter how well you connect with the ball, the most runs you can get is four. In business, every once in a while, when you step up to the plate you can score 1,000 runs. This long-tailed distribution of returns is why it’s important to be bold. Big winners pay for so many experiments.

[10x Technologies](https://blogofjake.com/2020/12/29/10x-technologies/)

---

## Pre-defined boxes

Truly transformative companies rarely fit into pre-defined boxes. Limiting focus to “yesterday’s” best-performing industries will miss these companies.

[LUKE NOSEK](http://www.gigafund.com/)

---

## The convergence of technology and human behavior

Behavior is shaped by the constraints of technology, and in turn, technology is pushed forward by the needs and demands of consumers. When the telegraph was popularized in the 1800s, its rapid rate of transmission made it ideal for urgent and important messages. The invention of the printing press made it much cheaper and faster to create books and manuscripts, spurring a new era of mass media and allowing millions of people to interact with the written word. These inventions created new product categories and consumer demands—to be faster, to allow for voice, to be portable—leading to the telephone, the steam-powered printing press, typewriters, in turn causing the next waves of innovation. In the modern era, history repeats itself.

Audio, now squarely at the intersection of consumer behavior and technological change, is at the precipice of a new wave of innovation. Fueled by RSS, followed by the adoption of AirPods, smart speakers, and more, the demand for audio in the form of podcasts and audiobooks is at an all time high. That, in turn, makes entrepreneurs more adventurous in advancing new social and user-generated methods of creating audio content. The next decade of innovation of audio will likely be as productive and valuable that of messaging, video, and other media to date. Audio will create the next generation of startups in social networking, social content platforms, and publishing, and will be embedded into a wide variety of products and services. Follow the innovation—listen closely.

[a16z The Next Phase of Social? Listen Closely](https://a16z.com/2020/12/07/social-strikes-back-audio/)

---

## Scientist vs Engineer

Much of what people think of an science is actually engineering, eg no such thing as a “rocket scientist”, only rocket engineers. Latter is who put humans on the moon.

[Elon Musk](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1333974035294683137)

---

## Jim Keller leaving Intel

How could one person be so important at CPU development?
We have no doubt he is one of the best player in the field from the history. But doesn’t the huge project like CPU development require a lot of good workers rather than one genius?
There are so many engineering tradeoffs when developing a cutting edge chip. Picking the right ones is very hard; if you have a leader who staffs the project and sets the culture and decision making process in such a way that the right tradeoffs are consistently made, then that is golden. 

[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23496083)

[Jim Keller: Moore's Law, Microprocessors, and First Principles ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nb2tebYAaOA)

---

## Facebook’s missing platform

The implication of Social Networking 2.0, though, is that users want to be in multiple places at the same time in order to express their multiple identities. This, by extension, means that Facebook is probably never going to create places for everyone.

In fact, it appears we are headed in the opposite direction: the promise of Social Networking 2.0 is that in the proliferation of identities we can achieve something better in the digital world than we ever could in the analog one, but Facebook has consigned itself to being one provider amongst many, instead of the foundation on which that proliferation occurs.

[Stratechery](https://stratechery.com/2020/context-collapse-circles-and-timing-facebooks-missing-platform/)

---

## Apple and Tesla

Apple is a 1st mover in innovation, but a 2nd mover in business. It’s strategy has always been to wait for competitors to test demand and market waters, then once this is validated, to carve in, innovate and use its brand to gain market share and ultimately dominate it. It did it with Fitbit to make the Apple Watch, not surprised it will with Tesla.

---

## Indi vs. System

One of the biggest reasons why things go sideways is that people optimize individual pieces of a system without paying attention to how those changes will impact the system as a whole.

---

## Dreams > Memory

Don’t let your memories ever bigger than your dreams - Laird Hamilton

---


## Naval on truth-seeking systems

Evolution works by mutation and selection.

Innovation works by trial and error.

Science works by conjecture and criticism.

Free markets work by entrepreneurship and risk.

All truth-seeking systems work roughly the same way.

[Tweet](https://twitter.com/naval/status/1332478319137153024?s=10)

---

## Sean Parker on grit and being cool


You have got to be willing to be poor [as an entrepreneur],” he says. “There was a time when I was living out of a single suitcase. I had a rule that I wouldn’t stay on one person’s couch for more than two weeks because I didn’t want to become a bother.”

“So is a billion dollars cool? He ponders the question carefully. “No, it’s not,” he says. “It’s not cool. I think being a wealthy member of the establishment is the antithesis of cool. Being a countercultural revolutionary is cool. So to the extent that you’ve made a billion dollars, you’ve probably become uncool.” “

---

## Sean Parker on Google (2011)

“What comes after the revolution is inevitably bureaucracy,” he says. “Whoever wins the revolution builds a bureaucracy.” And what will end up happening is the big powers will control the tech industry. He paints a picture of “Google pretending to be Switzerland, but doing back deals with everyone, and Apple being left alone to build the Deathstar.” Guess where that will leave most startups. 

[Link](https://techcrunch.com/2011/11/15/sean-parker-little-startups-are-ridiculously-overfunded/)

---

## Marc Andreessen on Flying Car

A Snippet Of An Interview: [Interview with Marc Andreessen](https://www.startups.com/library/founder-stories/marc-andreessen) 

**Sarah Lacy:** You and Peter Thiel had a really interesting debate about whether or not Silicon Valley is doing enough, and is out there enough, and is pushing big ideas. Peter obviously has the whole “We want to fly in cars, and we got Twitter” manifesto.

In that debate, you were defending Silicon Valley. Do you really look at a lot of the things in your portfolio and look at a lot of things in the world, and think that you guys are funding most of things? Are you so hamstrung by regulators?

Is there a way Andreessen Horowitz could stop backing more apps and throw some of the money towards the next SpaceX?

**Marc Andreessen:** When I debate with Peter, he says, “We want to fly in cars, we got 140 characters,” so therefore I can’t resist. I attack flying cars and I defend Twitter, which grates him up to no end.
In a sense, I very much disagree with what he says, and then in a sense, I very much agree with it. What I disagree with is I think the innovation that’s happening today in Silicon Valley is very important, profound, deep, and important. I’m completely unapologetic about the idea.

For example, Uber and Lyft. Lyft is the company we work with, we’re very excited about. I think these companies are transformational for transportation. I think they’re fun. We can talk about that for a long time. I think Airbnb is transformational for real estate. I think Bitcoin, transformational for financial services.

> The capital efficiency of having a small group of software programmers that build amazing software, who then go in and do something in an industry that’s 100 billion or trillion-dollar industry, existing venture capital structure and framework is very good at doing that.

It works very well when it works, and I think that’s very valuable. I always accuse Peter of dismissing all that stuff out of hand, which is probably an overstatement.

The part that I struggle with, and I’m on the verge of agreeing with, it’s SpaceX, it’s Tesla. The trenchant critique comes from Larry Page, Elon, and Peter. It’s like, “OK, software. Got it. What about electric cars? What about the Hyperloop? What about the SpaceX private rocketry?”

What about these bigger, more transformational things? In particular, what about the things that operate more in the real world? What about the things that are really going to affect natural resources, pollution, livability of cities, and all the things that are outside of whatever’s running on the screen?

I think that there’s a validity. Google is doing the self-driving car. The self-driving car is going to work. By the time it works, it will have cost hundreds of millions, and possibly billions of dollars to make work.
The self-driving car is not a lean startup. Not in any way.

> SpaceX and Tesla were not lean startups. They were very big, ambitious. They raised a lot of money.
> The big question, the question I’m noodling around, is what about the efforts where you have to say, “This thing is going to take $300 million?” It just is. There’s no shortcut and there’s no minimum viable product. It is going to take $300 million, and that $300 million has to be reserved ahead of time.

> Those companies have to be run completely differently because the stakes are so much higher. 

What kind of entrepreneur can do that? Elon has proven he can do it. There are not a lot of other people in the Valley today who have done things at that level of scale.

There’s a different kind of entrepreneur. There’s a different kind of idea. There’s a different kind of financing method. I think we’ll all collectively figure it out, but we don’t actually have it today.

What you get is you have a very special entrepreneur like Elon, and then he can do it. What I always say is, “OK, who is the next Elon? And then we’ll talk.”

Some Discussion on HN:

[Link](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22590558)

>  YC and their VCs are in it to make money by placing a number of small bets, knowing some will be losers. To go big like SpaceX requires you to be all in. Elon nearly went broke a couple times. He's willing to take that risk because he's in it for the results, not the money.

> I used to wonder if it was just hype for employees and investors to say that SpaceX goal was to make humanity multi planetary. The last couple years have convinced me he's for real. The man could retire now. SpaceX could just own the launch industry by cutting cost for a while, or sit back and enjoy higher profits from reusability. But starship and mass production of it? Nonsense unless the stated mission is for real.

> People can do so much more if it's about the mission and not the money, and that includes investors. -[phkahler
](https://news.ycombinator.com/user?id=phkahler)


> A huge issue here is that venture capital's classic business model isn't compatible with SpaceX-scale ventures because they take way too long to return value to investors. SpaceX took 6 years just to complete a demonstration flight to LEO, for instance, whereas a VC is looking for a liquidation event in the ~7 year timeframe. -[	thisisbrians](https://news.ycombinator.com/user?id=thisisbrians)


Related Article: 

[The Upside of Creation](https://allenleein.github.io/2019/06/11/gamesthoery1.html)

[Lean Is for Mediocre Minds](https://allenleein.github.io/2019/12/06/lean-mediocre.html)
